feat: Add coordinator implementation of CLP connector. (#15)
y-scope/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/clp.rst

=============
CLP Connector
=============

.. contents::
    :local:
    :backlinks: none
    :depth: 1

Overview
--------

> The CLP Connector enables SQL-based querying of CLP-S archives from Presto. This document describes how to set up the
> CLP Connector to run SQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLP Connector enables SQL-based querying of `CLP <https://github.com/y-scope/clp>`_ archives via Presto. This
document describes how to configure the CLP Connector for use with a CLP cluster, as well as essential details for
understanding the CLP connector.
```

Configuration
-------------

> To configure the CLP connector, create a catalog properties file
> ``etc/catalog/clp.properties`` with the following contents,
> replacing the properties as appropriate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the CLP connector, create a catalog properties file ``etc/catalog/clp.properties`` with at least the
following contents, modifying the properties as appropriate:
```

> .. code-block:: none

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: ini
```

    connector.name=clp
    clp.metadata-provider-type=mysql
    clp.metadata-db-url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306
    clp.metadata-db-name=clp_db
    clp.metadata-db-user=clp_user
    clp.metadata-db-password=clp_password
    clp.metadata-table-prefix=clp_
    clp.split-provider-type=mysql

Configuration Properties
------------------------

The following configuration properties are available:

================================== ======================================================================== =========
Property Name                      Description                                                              Default
================================== ======================================================================== =========

> ``clp.metadata-expire-interval``   Defines how long metadata entries remain valid before being considered   600
>                                    expired, in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``clp.metadata-expire-interval``   Defines how long, in seconds, metadata entries remain valid before they  600
                                   need to be refreshed.
```

``clp.metadata-refresh-interval``  Specifies how frequently metadata is refreshed from the source, in       60
                                   seconds. Set this to a lower value for frequently changing datasets or
                                   to a higher value to reduce load.
``clp.polymorphic-type-enabled``   Enables or disables support for polymorphic types in CLP, allowing the   ``false``
                                   same field to have different types. This is useful for schema-less,
                                   semi-structured data where the same field may appear with different
                                   types.

>                                    When enabled, type annotations are added to conflicting field names to
>                                    distinguish between types. For example, if ``id`` column appears as both
>                                    an ``int`` and ``string`` types, the connector will create two columns
>                                    named ``id_bigint`` and ``id_varchar``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                   When enabled, type annotations are added to conflicting field names to
                                   distinguish between types. For example, if an ``id`` column appears with
                                   both an ``int`` and ``string`` types, the connector will create two
                                   columns named ``id_bigint`` and ``id_varchar``.
```

                                   required if ``clp.metadata-provider-type`` is set to ``mysql`` and the
                                   database name is not specified in the URL.
``clp.metadata-db-password``       The password for the metadata database user. This option is required if
                                   ``clp.metadata-provider-type`` is set to ``mysql``.
``clp.metadata-table-prefix``      A string prefix prepended to all metadata table names when querying the
                                   database. Useful for namespacing or avoiding collisions. This option is
                                   required if ``clp.metadata-provider-type`` is set to ``mysql``.
``clp.split-provider-type``        Specifies the split provider type. By default, it uses the same type as  ``mysql``
                                   the metadata provider with the same connection parameters. Additional
                                   types can be supported by implementing the ``ClpSplitProvider``
                                   interface.
================================== ======================================================================== =========

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Metadata and Split Providers
----------------------------

> The CLP connector relies on metadata and split providers to retrieve information from various sources. By default, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The CLP connector relies on metadata and split providers to retrieve information from various sources. By default, it
```

uses a MySQL database for both metadata and split storage. We recommend using the CLP package for log ingestion, which
automatically populates the database with the required information.

> If you prefer to use a different source—or the same source with a custom implementation—you can provide your own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use a different source--or the same source with a custom implementation--you can provide your own
```

accordingly.

Data Types
----------

The data type mappings are as follows:

====================== ====================
CLP Type               Presto Type
====================== ====================
``Integer``            ``BIGINT``
``Float``              ``DOUBLE``
``ClpString``          ``VARCHAR``
``VarString``          ``VARCHAR``
``DateString``         ``VARCHAR``
``Boolean``            ``BOOLEAN``
``UnstructuredArray``  ``ARRAY(VARCHAR)``
``Object``             ``ROW``
(others)               (unsupported)
====================== ====================

String Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^

CLP uses three distinct string types: ``ClpString`` (strings with whitespace), ``VarString`` (strings without
whitespace), and ``DateString`` (strings representing dates). Currently, all three are mapped to Presto's ``VARCHAR``
type.

Array Types
^^^^^^^^^^^

CLP supports two array types: ``UnstructuredArray`` and ``StructuredArray``. Unstructured arrays are stored as strings
in CLP and elements can be any type. However, in Presto arrays are homogeneous, so the elements are converted to strings
when read. ``StructuredArray`` type is not supported in Presto.

Object Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> CLP stores metadata using a global schema tree structure that captures all possible fields from various log structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

CLP stores metadata using a global schema tree structure that captures all possible fields from various log structures.
```

=============
CLP Connector
=============

.. contents::
    :local:
    :backlinks: none
    :depth: 1

Overview
--------

The CLP Connector enables SQL-based querying of `CLP <https://github.com/y-scope/clp>`_ archives via Presto. This
document describes how to configure the CLP Connector for use with a CLP cluster, as well as essential details for
understanding the CLP connector.

Configuration
-------------

To configure the CLP connector, create a catalog properties file ``etc/catalog/clp.properties`` with at least the
following contents, modifying the properties as appropriate:

.. code-block:: ini

    connector.name=clp
    clp.metadata-provider-type=mysql
    clp.metadata-db-url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306
    clp.metadata-db-name=clp_db
    clp.metadata-db-user=clp_user
    clp.metadata-db-password=clp_password
    clp.metadata-table-prefix=clp_

>     clp.split-provider-type=mysql

Reviewer 2: if we applied the alphabize comment in the `ClpConfig`, maybe we should also alphabize here

Configuration Properties
------------------------

The following configuration properties are available:

================================== ======================================================================== =========
Property Name                      Description                                                              Default
================================== ======================================================================== =========

> ``clp.metadata-expire-interval``   Defines how long, in seconds, metadata entries remain valid before they  600

Reviewer 2: same, we should keep the same order

``clp.metadata-table-prefix``      A string prefix prepended to all metadata table names when querying the
                                   database. Useful for namespacing or avoiding collisions. This option is
                                   required if ``clp.metadata-provider-type`` is set to ``mysql``.
``clp.split-provider-type``        Specifies the split provider type. By default, it uses the same type as  ``mysql``
                                   the metadata provider with the same connection parameters. Additional
                                   types can be supported by implementing the ``ClpSplitProvider``
                                   interface.
================================== ======================================================================== =========

Metadata and Split Providers
----------------------------

The CLP connector relies on metadata and split providers to retrieve information from various sources. By default, it
uses a MySQL database for both metadata and split storage. We recommend using the CLP package for log ingestion, which
automatically populates the database with the required information.

> If you prefer to use a different source--or the same source with a custom implementation—you can provide your own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use a different source--or the same source with a custom implementation--you can provide your own
```
